README.md, before:

# Road Profile Database & Upload System

> **[DE] Deutsche Version:** Für vollständige Anweisungen auf Deutsch, siehe [README.de.md](README.de.md)
> **[EN] English Version:** You are reading it!

Welcome to the Road Profile Database & Upload System exercise! This is a **group assignment** where you will extend an existing Dash application with database persistence, multi-profile selection, and file upload capabilities.

> **Note:** Error messages from automated checks (GitHub Actions workflows) appear in **both English and German**.

## 📚 Learning Objectives

This exercise introduces you to **professional feature development workflows** using modern software engineering practices. You'll experience your first end-to-end development cycle - a pedagogical preview of Agile/Scrum methodologies covered in later lectures.

By completing this exercise, you will:

1. **Experience professional feature development** with proper planning, implementation, testing, and review cycles
2. **Integrate databases** with web applications (SQLite with FastAPI/SQLModel OR TinyDB)
3. **Design and implement REST APIs** (if using FastAPI approach)
4. **Build multi-page Dash applications** with file upload and data validation
5. **Apply Pydantic validation** for data integrity
6. **Practice collaborative development** with feature branches and code reviews
7. **Achieve high test coverage** (90%+ on new features) with quality-driven development
8. **Document implementation decisions** and technical planning

## 🎯 Assignment Overview

You will extend the existing road profile viewer application with these features:

**Current State:**
- Single default road profile (hard-coded)
- Camera position and sight ray visualization
- Intersection calculation and display

**Your Task - Add:**
1. **Dropdown selector** to choose from multiple stored road profiles
2. **Database backend** to persist road profiles
3. **Upload page** where users can add new profiles via JSON files
4. **Profile preview** showing graph before saving
5. **Profile renaming** capability on upload page
6. **Data validation** using Pydantic models (validates uploaded JSON, e.g., reject if x/y coordinate lists have different lengths)

## 🏗️ Technical Approaches

You can choose between two implementation approaches with different point values:

### Approach 1: FastAPI + SQLModel + SQLite (5 points possible)

**Architecture:**
- **Backend**: FastAPI REST API with endpoints for CRUD operations
- **Database**: SQLite with SQLModel ORM
- **Frontend**: Dash app consuming the API
- **Migration**: Database initialization and seeding scripts

**Why this approach:**
- Industry-standard architecture (separation of concerns)
- Scalable and testable
- More sophisticated, unlocks full 5 points

**Key Components:**
```
src/road_profile_viewer/
├── api/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── main.py          # FastAPI app
│   └── routes.py        # API endpoints
├── database/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── models.py        # SQLModel database models
│   └── connection.py    # Database setup
├── models.py            # Pydantic validation models
└── visualization.py     # Updated Dash app with API calls
```

### Approach 2: TinyDB (4 points possible)

**Architecture:**
- **Database**: TinyDB (JSON-based, no separate backend needed)
- **Frontend**: Dash app directly accessing TinyDB
- **Simpler**: All code integrated in Dash application

**Why this approach:**
- Lightweight and simple
- No API layer needed
- Good for learning database basics

**Key Components:**
```
src/road_profile_viewer/
├── database/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── db.py            # TinyDB operations
├── models.py            # Pydantic validation models
└── visualization.py     # Updated Dash app with TinyDB
```

**Choose based on your team's:**
- Time availability
- Learning goals (want to learn FastAPI?)
- Ambition level (aiming for full 5 points?)

## 📋 Requirements

### 1. Implementation (1.5 points)

#### Dropdown Selector (0.6 points)
- [ ] Add dropdown component on main page to select road profiles
- [ ] Dropdown lists all available profiles by name
- [ ] Selecting a profile updates the visualization
- [ ] Default profile pre-selected on app startup

#### Upload Page (0.9 points)
- [ ] Create new page/route in Dash app (`/upload`)
- [ ] File upload component accepting JSON files
- [ ] Preview graph showing uploaded profile before saving
- [ ] Text input to rename the profile
- [ ] Confirm button to save to database
- [ ] Success/error messages after upload
- [ ] Navigation between main page and upload page

### 2. Backend & Database (1.0 points)

#### Database Schema (0.3 points)
- [ ] Road profile model with fields: `id`, `name`, `x_coordinates`, `y_coordinates`
- [ ] Unique constraint on profile names
- [ ] Proper data types (list/array for coordinates)

#### Database Operations (0.4 points)
- [ ] Create (insert new profile)
- [ ] Read (get all profiles, get by name/id)
- [ ] Update (optional, but recommended)
- [ ] Delete (optional, but recommended)

#### Migration/Seed (0.3 points)
- [ ] Script to initialize database
- [ ] Seed default profile on first run
- [ ] Database file in `.gitignore` (not committed)

**FastAPI Approach Bonus (+1 point):**
- [ ] REST API endpoints: `GET /profiles`, `POST /profiles`, `GET /profiles/{id}`
- [ ] Proper error handling (404, 409 conflict, 422 validation)
- [ ] FastAPI automatic documentation (`/docs`)
- [ ] Separation of concerns (API layer separate from Dash)

### 3. Data Validation (included in Implementation points)

- [ ] Pydantic model matching example JSON schema
- [ ] Validation rules:
  - Name: 1-100 characters, non-empty
  - `x_coordinates` and `y_coordinates`: same length, at least 2 points
  - Coordinates must be numeric (floats)
- [ ] Clear error messages on validation failure
- [ ] Example JSON file provided in `docs/example-road-profile.json`

### 4. Testing (0.5 points)

- [ ] **90%+ C1 coverage** on all new features
- [ ] Unit tests for:
  - Database operations (CRUD)
  - API endpoints (if FastAPI approach)
  - Pydantic validation (valid and invalid cases)
  - Upload functionality
  - Dropdown selection logic
- [ ] Integration tests for upload workflow
- [ ] Coverage report generated by pytest-cov

### 5. Git Workflow & Collaboration (0.5 points)

- [ ] **At least 2 feature branches** with descriptive names (e.g., `feature/database-setup`, `feature/upload-page`)
- [ ] **Multiple contributors**: Each branch has commits from at least one team member
- [ ] **Incremental commits** with descriptive messages (>20 characters)
- [ ] **Implementation plan** documented in `docs/implementation-plan.md`
- [ ] **LLM prompts** (if used) saved in `docs/llm-prompts/` folder

### 6. Code Review (0.5 points)

- [ ] All features implemented via **Pull Requests**
- [ ] PRs use the provided **PR description template**
- [ ] Each PR reviewed by at least **one other team member**
- [ ] Reviews include substantive feedback (not just "LGTM")
- [ ] All CI checks pass before merge

## 👥 Group Work

### Team Setup
- **Group size**: 2-4 students
- **Formation**: Self-organized or instructor-assigned
- **Repository**: One repository per group via GitHub Classroom

### Collaboration Requirements

1. **Implementation Plan** (`docs/implementation-plan.md`):
   ```markdown
   # Implementation Plan

   ## Team Members
   - [Name] - [Role/Responsibilities]
   - [Name] - [Role/Responsibilities]

   ## Technical Decision
   - [ ] FastAPI + SQLModel + SQLite (5 points)
   - [ ] TinyDB (4 points)

   ## Feature Breakdown
   | Feature | Branch | Assignee | Status |
   |---------|--------|----------|--------|
   | Database setup | feature/database | [Name] | ✅ |
   | Upload page | feature/upload | [Name] | 🔄 |

   ## Testing Strategy
   [How you'll achieve 90% coverage]
   ```

2. **Branch Strategy**:
   - Minimum 2 feature branches (recommendation: 3-4)
   - Suggested branches:
     - `feature/database-setup` - Database schema, models, seed script
     - `feature/dropdown-selector` - Main page dropdown integration
     - `feature/upload-page` - New upload page with preview
     - `feature/api-endpoints` - FastAPI routes (if applicable)

3. **Work Distribution**:
   - Each team member works on at least one feature branch
   - Use GitHub Issues to track tasks
   - Daily standups (document in issue comments)

4. **LLM Usage** (Optional but Encouraged):
   - If you use ChatGPT, Claude, or other LLMs, save prompts
   - Create folder: `docs/llm-prompts/`
   - File naming: `YYYY-MM-DD-feature-name.md`
   - Include both prompts and relevant responses

## 🚀 Getting Started

> **Important:** You are **completely independent** in how you approach this assignment. The steps below are **suggestions** to guide you, but feel free to develop your own workflow that works best for your team!

### Step 1: Accept Assignment & Form Team

```bash
# Each team member accepts the GitHub Classroom assignment
# First member creates a new team
# Other members join the existing team

# Clone the team repository
git clone https://github.com/hs-aalen-software-engineering/road-profile-db-TEAM-NAME.git
cd road-profile-db-TEAM-NAME
```

### Step 2: Understand Current Application

```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Run the current app to see what it does
uv run python -m road_profile_viewer

# Open browser: http://127.0.0.1:8050/
# Play with the angle input to see ray intersection
```

**Explore the code:**
- `src/road_profile_viewer/main.py` - Entry point
- `src/road_profile_viewer/visualization.py` - Dash UI
- `src/road_profile_viewer/geometry.py` - Intersection calculations
- `src/road_profile_viewer/road.py` - Current profile generation

### Step 3: Plan Your Implementation

**Hold a team meeting to decide:**

1. Which technical approach? (FastAPI or TinyDB)
2. How to split the work? (who does what)
3. What will your branch strategy be?
4. How will you achieve 90% test coverage?

**Fill in the provided template:** `docs/implementation-plan.md`

The template is already in your repository - customize it for your team's needs.

### Step 4: Set Up Development Environment

**Create starter files:**

```bash
# 1. Create Pydantic models file
# src/road_profile_viewer/models.py already has a starter!

# 2. Review example JSON format
cat docs/example-road-profile.json
```

**Example JSON format** (`docs/example-road-profile.json`):
```json
{
  "name": "mountain_road",
  "x_coordinates": [0.0, 10.0, 20.0, 30.0, 40.0, 50.0],
  "y_coordinates": [0.0, 2.0, 5.0, 8.0, 6.0, 4.0]
}
```

### Step 5: Develop Features

**Split the work among team members.** Create feature branches for each major component. Here are some suggested work packages, but feel free to organize differently:

- Database setup and schema
- Dropdown selector integration
- Upload page with validation
- API endpoints (if using FastAPI)
- Testing and coverage

**Example workflow for one feature:**

```bash
# Create your feature branch
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name

# Implement your feature
# Write tests as you go
# Commit incrementally with meaningful messages

# Push and create PR using the template
git push -u origin feature/your-feature-name
gh pr create
```

**Remember:** Each feature should have tests, follow code quality standards, and go through code review before merging.

### Step 6: Code Review Process

**For each PR:**

1. **Author**: Ensure CI checks pass before requesting review
2. **Reviewer**: Check the PR using the template checklist
3. **Reviewer**: Test locally:
   ```bash
   git fetch origin
   git checkout feature/database-setup
   uv sync
   uv run pytest --cov=src --cov-report=term-missing
   uv run python -m road_profile_viewer
   ```
4. **Reviewer**: Leave comments, request changes, or approve
5. **Author**: Address feedback, push updates
6. **Merge**: Only after approval + all CI checks pass

### Step 7: Integration & Testing

```bash
# After all features merged, verify end-to-end:

# 1. Fresh install
uv sync

# 2. Check coverage on all new code
uv run pytest --cov=src --cov-report=html --cov-report=term
# Open htmlcov/index.html to see detailed coverage

# 3. Manual testing checklist:
# - [ ] App starts without errors
# - [ ] Dropdown shows default profile
# - [ ] Can select different profiles from dropdown
# - [ ] Upload page accessible
# - [ ] Can upload valid JSON file
# - [ ] Preview graph appears correctly
# - [ ] Can rename profile before saving
# - [ ] Profile appears in dropdown after upload
# - [ ] Invalid JSON shows error message
# - [ ] Database persists after app restart

# 4. Code quality checks
uv run ruff check .
uv run ruff format --check .
uv run pyright
```

## 🔍 Grading Rubric

| Category | Points | Criteria |
|----------|--------|----------|
| **Implementation** | 1.5 | Dropdown (0.6) + Upload page with preview/rename (0.9) |
| **Backend/Database** | 1.0 | Schema (0.3) + CRUD operations (0.4) + Seed script (0.3) |
| **Testing** | 0.5 | 90%+ C1 coverage on new features |
| **Git Workflow** | 0.5 | ≥2 branches, clear commits, implementation plan |
| **Code Review** | 0.5 | PRs with template, peer reviews, CI passes |
| **BONUS: FastAPI** | +1.0 | REST API + proper error handling + separation of concerns |
| **Total (TinyDB)** | **4.0** | Maximum achievable with TinyDB approach |
| **Total (FastAPI)** | **5.0** | Capped at 5.0 (bonus allows error margin up to 6.0) |

### Automated Checks

GitHub Actions will automatically verify:

- ✅ **Code Quality**: Ruff linting, Pyright type checking
- ✅ **Test Coverage**: pytest-cov with 90% threshold on new code
- ✅ **Git Workflow**: ≥2 feature branches, multiple authors, commit quality
- ✅ **PR Reviews**: All PRs approved before merge
- ✅ **Structure**: Required files exist (database/, models.py, etc.)

### Manual Evaluation

Instructor will:
- Clone your repository
- Run `uv sync` and `uv run python -m road_profile_viewer`
- Test all features (dropdown, upload, preview, persistence)
- Review implementation plan quality
- Check code architecture decisions
- Verify testing strategy

## 📄 Required Files Checklist

**Documentation:**
- [ ] `docs/implementation-plan.md` - Your team's plan
- [ ] `docs/example-road-profile.json` - Provided example (included)
- [ ] `docs/llm-prompts/` - LLM prompts (if used)

**Code (varies by approach):**

**Both approaches:**
- [ ] `src/road_profile_viewer/models.py` - Pydantic validation models
- [ ] Updated `src/road_profile_viewer/visualization.py` - Dropdown + upload page

**FastAPI approach:**
- [ ] `src/road_profile_viewer/api/main.py` - FastAPI app
- [ ] `src/road_profile_viewer/api/routes.py` - API endpoints
- [ ] `src/road_profile_viewer/database/models.py` - SQLModel models
- [ ] `src/road_profile_viewer/database/connection.py` - DB setup

**TinyDB approach:**
- [ ] `src/road_profile_viewer/database/db.py` - TinyDB operations

**Tests:**
- [ ] `tests/test_models.py` - Pydantic validation tests
- [ ] `tests/test_database.py` - Database operation tests
- [ ] `tests/test_upload.py` - Upload functionality tests
- [ ] `tests/test_api.py` - API endpoint tests (FastAPI only)

## 📚 Technical Resources

### FastAPI + SQLModel Approach
- [FastAPI Documentation](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
- [SQLModel Documentation](https://sqlmodel.tiangolo.com/)
- [Pydantic Validation](https://docs.pydantic.dev/latest/)

### TinyDB Approach
- [TinyDB Documentation](https://tinydb.readthedocs.io/)
- [TinyDB Tutorial](https://tinydb.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting-started.html)

### Dash Multi-Page Apps
- [Dash Pages](https://dash.plotly.com/urls)
- [Dash Upload Component](https://dash.plotly.com/dash-core-components/upload)

### Testing
- [pytest Documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/)
- [pytest-cov Coverage](https://pytest-cov.readthedocs.io/)

## 🎉 Success Criteria

Your assignment is complete when:

- ✅ All features work as demonstrated in person
- ✅ All automated CI checks pass
- ✅ Test coverage ≥90% on new code
- ✅ All PRs reviewed and merged
- ✅ Implementation plan documents your decisions
- ✅ Code quality meets standards (Ruff, Pyright)

**Congratulations on building a full-stack database application!**

---

**Assignment Created**: 2025-11-19
**Course**: Software Engineering - HS Aalen
**Instructor**: Dominik Mueller
**Max Points**: 5.0 (FastAPI approach can earn bonus for margin of error)

Commit message:

Add disclaimers about automated checks and models.py flexibility
Clarifies that automated checks are for orientation only and students
shouldn't get stuck on failing checks if they have valid alternative
solutions. Emphasizes instructor-based grading over check compliance.

Also adds clear documentation that models.py is a starter suggestion,
not a requirement. Students are free to design their own models and
must move the file to match their chosen architecture.

Changes:
- Add prominent disclaimer in README.md/README.de.md after "Automated Checks"
  - Final grading done by instructor, not automated checks
  - Checks may not cover all valid approaches
  - Students should focus on working solutions, not check compliance
- Update README.md/README.de.md models.py section
  - Clarify it's a starter suggestion
  - Emphasize freedom to design own models
  - Remind to move file based on architecture choice
- Add comprehensive header comments to models.py
  - Explain it's a suggestion, not requirement
  - List relocation options for both approaches
  - Encourage students to improve/modify as needed

This prevents students from getting blocked by checks when they have
valid alternative implementations.

README.md, after:

# Road Profile Database & Upload System

> **[DE] Deutsche Version:** Für vollständige Anweisungen auf Deutsch, siehe [README.de.md](README.de.md)
> **[EN] English Version:** You are reading it!

Welcome to the Road Profile Database & Upload System exercise! This is a **group assignment** where you will extend an existing Dash application with database persistence, multi-profile selection, and file upload capabilities.

> **Note:** Error messages from automated checks (GitHub Actions workflows) appear in **both English and German**.

## 📚 Learning Objectives

This exercise introduces you to **professional feature development workflows** using modern software engineering practices. You'll experience your first end-to-end development cycle - a pedagogical preview of Agile/Scrum methodologies covered in later lectures.

By completing this exercise, you will:

1. **Experience professional feature development** with proper planning, implementation, testing, and review cycles
2. **Integrate databases** with web applications (SQLite with FastAPI/SQLModel OR TinyDB)
3. **Design and implement REST APIs** (if using FastAPI approach)
4. **Build multi-page Dash applications** with file upload and data validation
5. **Apply Pydantic validation** for data integrity
6. **Practice collaborative development** with feature branches and code reviews
7. **Achieve high test coverage** (90%+ on new features) with quality-driven development
8. **Document implementation decisions** and technical planning

## 🎯 Assignment Overview

You will extend the existing road profile viewer application with these features:

**Current State:**
- Single default road profile (hard-coded)
- Camera position and sight ray visualization
- Intersection calculation and display

**Your Task - Add:**
1. **Dropdown selector** to choose from multiple stored road profiles
2. **Database backend** to persist road profiles
3. **Upload page** where users can add new profiles via JSON files
4. **Profile preview** showing graph before saving
5. **Profile renaming** capability on upload page
6. **Data validation** using Pydantic models (validates uploaded JSON, e.g., reject if x/y coordinate lists have different lengths)

## 🏗️ Technical Approaches

You can choose between two implementation approaches with different point values:

### Approach 1: FastAPI + SQLModel + SQLite (5 points possible)

**Architecture:**
- **Backend**: FastAPI REST API with endpoints for CRUD operations
- **Database**: SQLite with SQLModel ORM
- **Frontend**: Dash app consuming the API
- **Migration**: Database initialization and seeding scripts

**Why this approach:**
- Industry-standard architecture (separation of concerns)
- Scalable and testable
- More sophisticated, unlocks full 5 points

**Key Components:**
```
src/road_profile_viewer/
├── api/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── main.py          # FastAPI app
│   └── routes.py        # API endpoints
├── database/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── models.py        # SQLModel database models
│   └── connection.py    # Database setup
├── models.py            # Pydantic validation models
└── visualization.py     # Updated Dash app with API calls
```

### Approach 2: TinyDB (4 points possible)

**Architecture:**
- **Database**: TinyDB (JSON-based, no separate backend needed)
- **Frontend**: Dash app directly accessing TinyDB
- **Simpler**: All code integrated in Dash application

**Why this approach:**
- Lightweight and simple
- No API layer needed
- Good for learning database basics

**Key Components:**
```
src/road_profile_viewer/
├── database/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── db.py            # TinyDB operations
├── models.py            # Pydantic validation models
└── visualization.py     # Updated Dash app with TinyDB
```

**Choose based on your team's:**
- Time availability
- Learning goals (want to learn FastAPI?)
- Ambition level (aiming for full 5 points?)

## 📋 Requirements

### 1. Implementation (1.5 points)

#### Dropdown Selector (0.6 points)
- [ ] Add dropdown component on main page to select road profiles
- [ ] Dropdown lists all available profiles by name
- [ ] Selecting a profile updates the visualization
- [ ] Default profile pre-selected on app startup

#### Upload Page (0.9 points)
- [ ] Create new page/route in Dash app (`/upload`)
- [ ] File upload component accepting JSON files
- [ ] Preview graph showing uploaded profile before saving
- [ ] Text input to rename the profile
- [ ] Confirm button to save to database
- [ ] Success/error messages after upload
- [ ] Navigation between main page and upload page

### 2. Backend & Database (1.0 points)

#### Database Schema (0.3 points)
- [ ] Road profile model with fields: `id`, `name`, `x_coordinates`, `y_coordinates`
- [ ] Unique constraint on profile names
- [ ] Proper data types (list/array for coordinates)

#### Database Operations (0.4 points)
- [ ] Create (insert new profile)
- [ ] Read (get all profiles, get by name/id)
- [ ] Update (optional, but recommended)
- [ ] Delete (optional, but recommended)

#### Migration/Seed (0.3 points)
- [ ] Script to initialize database
- [ ] Seed default profile on first run
- [ ] Database file in `.gitignore` (not committed)

**FastAPI Approach Bonus (+1 point):**
- [ ] REST API endpoints: `GET /profiles`, `POST /profiles`, `GET /profiles/{id}`
- [ ] Proper error handling (404, 409 conflict, 422 validation)
- [ ] FastAPI automatic documentation (`/docs`)
- [ ] Separation of concerns (API layer separate from Dash)

### 3. Data Validation (included in Implementation points)

- [ ] Pydantic model matching example JSON schema
- [ ] Validation rules:
  - Name: 1-100 characters, non-empty
  - `x_coordinates` and `y_coordinates`: same length, at least 2 points
  - Coordinates must be numeric (floats)
- [ ] Clear error messages on validation failure
- [ ] Example JSON file provided in `docs/example-road-profile.json`

### 4. Testing (0.5 points)

- [ ] **90%+ C1 coverage** on all new features
- [ ] Unit tests for:
  - Database operations (CRUD)
  - API endpoints (if FastAPI approach)
  - Pydantic validation (valid and invalid cases)
  - Upload functionality
  - Dropdown selection logic
- [ ] Integration tests for upload workflow
- [ ] Coverage report generated by pytest-cov

### 5. Git Workflow & Collaboration (0.5 points)

- [ ] **At least 2 feature branches** with descriptive names (e.g., `feature/database-setup`, `feature/upload-page`)
- [ ] **Multiple contributors**: Each branch has commits from at least one team member
- [ ] **Incremental commits** with descriptive messages (>20 characters)
- [ ] **Implementation plan** documented in `docs/implementation-plan.md`
- [ ] **LLM prompts** (if used) saved in `docs/llm-prompts/` folder

### 6. Code Review (0.5 points)

- [ ] All features implemented via **Pull Requests**
- [ ] PRs use the provided **PR description template**
- [ ] Each PR reviewed by at least **one other team member**
- [ ] Reviews include substantive feedback (not just "LGTM")
- [ ] All CI checks pass before merge

## 👥 Group Work

### Team Setup
- **Group size**: 2-4 students
- **Formation**: Self-organized or instructor-assigned
- **Repository**: One repository per group via GitHub Classroom

### Collaboration Requirements

1. **Implementation Plan** (`docs/implementation-plan.md`):
   ```markdown
   # Implementation Plan

   ## Team Members
   - [Name] - [Role/Responsibilities]
   - [Name] - [Role/Responsibilities]

   ## Technical Decision
   - [ ] FastAPI + SQLModel + SQLite (5 points)
   - [ ] TinyDB (4 points)

   ## Feature Breakdown
   | Feature | Branch | Assignee | Status |
   |---------|--------|----------|--------|
   | Database setup | feature/database | [Name] | ✅ |
   | Upload page | feature/upload | [Name] | 🔄 |

   ## Testing Strategy
   [How you'll achieve 90% coverage]
   ```

2. **Branch Strategy**:
   - Minimum 2 feature branches (recommendation: 3-4)
   - Suggested branches:
     - `feature/database-setup` - Database schema, models, seed script
     - `feature/dropdown-selector` - Main page dropdown integration
     - `feature/upload-page` - New upload page with preview
     - `feature/api-endpoints` - FastAPI routes (if applicable)

3. **Work Distribution**:
   - Each team member works on at least one feature branch
   - Use GitHub Issues to track tasks
   - Daily standups (document in issue comments)

4. **LLM Usage** (Optional but Encouraged):
   - If you use ChatGPT, Claude, or other LLMs, save prompts
   - Create folder: `docs/llm-prompts/`
   - File naming: `YYYY-MM-DD-feature-name.md`
   - Include both prompts and relevant responses

## 🚀 Getting Started

> **Important:** You are **completely independent** in how you approach this assignment. The steps below are **suggestions** to guide you, but feel free to develop your own workflow that works best for your team!

### Step 1: Accept Assignment & Form Team

```bash
# Each team member accepts the GitHub Classroom assignment
# First member creates a new team
# Other members join the existing team

# Clone the team repository
git clone https://github.com/hs-aalen-software-engineering/road-profile-db-TEAM-NAME.git
cd road-profile-db-TEAM-NAME
```

### Step 2: Understand Current Application

```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Run the current app to see what it does
uv run python -m road_profile_viewer

# Open browser: http://127.0.0.1:8050/
# Play with the angle input to see ray intersection
```

**Explore the code:**
- `src/road_profile_viewer/main.py` - Entry point
- `src/road_profile_viewer/visualization.py` - Dash UI
- `src/road_profile_viewer/geometry.py` - Intersection calculations
- `src/road_profile_viewer/road.py` - Current profile generation

### Step 3: Plan Your Implementation

**Hold a team meeting to decide:**

1. Which technical approach? (FastAPI or TinyDB)
2. How to split the work? (who does what)
3. What will your branch strategy be?
4. How will you achieve 90% test coverage?

**Fill in the provided template:** `docs/implementation-plan.md`

The template is already in your repository - customize it for your team's needs.

### Step 4: Set Up Development Environment

**Create starter files:**

```bash
# 1. Pydantic models
# src/road_profile_viewer/models.py contains a STARTER SUGGESTION
# You're completely free to design your own models!
# Remember: Move this file to match your chosen architecture
# (Keep it at root level OR move to database/ or api/ folder)

# 2. Review example JSON format
cat docs/example-road-profile.json
```

**Example JSON format** (`docs/example-road-profile.json`):
```json
{
  "name": "mountain_road",
  "x_coordinates": [0.0, 10.0, 20.0, 30.0, 40.0, 50.0],
  "y_coordinates": [0.0, 2.0, 5.0, 8.0, 6.0, 4.0]
}
```

### Step 5: Develop Features

**Split the work among team members.** Create feature branches for each major component. Here are some suggested work packages, but feel free to organize differently:

- Database setup and schema
- Dropdown selector integration
- Upload page with validation
- API endpoints (if using FastAPI)
- Testing and coverage

**Example workflow for one feature:**

```bash
# Create your feature branch
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name

# Implement your feature
# Write tests as you go
# Commit incrementally with meaningful messages

# Push and create PR using the template
git push -u origin feature/your-feature-name
gh pr create
```

**Remember:** Each feature should have tests, follow code quality standards, and go through code review before merging.

### Step 6: Code Review Process

**For each PR:**

1. **Author**: Ensure CI checks pass before requesting review
2. **Reviewer**: Check the PR using the template checklist
3. **Reviewer**: Test locally:
   ```bash
   git fetch origin
   git checkout feature/database-setup
   uv sync
   uv run pytest --cov=src --cov-report=term-missing
   uv run python -m road_profile_viewer
   ```
4. **Reviewer**: Leave comments, request changes, or approve
5. **Author**: Address feedback, push updates
6. **Merge**: Only after approval + all CI checks pass

### Step 7: Integration & Testing

```bash
# After all features merged, verify end-to-end:

# 1. Fresh install
uv sync

# 2. Check coverage on all new code
uv run pytest --cov=src --cov-report=html --cov-report=term
# Open htmlcov/index.html to see detailed coverage

# 3. Manual testing checklist:
# - [ ] App starts without errors
# - [ ] Dropdown shows default profile
# - [ ] Can select different profiles from dropdown
# - [ ] Upload page accessible
# - [ ] Can upload valid JSON file
# - [ ] Preview graph appears correctly
# - [ ] Can rename profile before saving
# - [ ] Profile appears in dropdown after upload
# - [ ] Invalid JSON shows error message
# - [ ] Database persists after app restart

# 4. Code quality checks
uv run ruff check .
uv run ruff format --check .
uv run pyright
```

## 🔍 Grading Rubric

| Category | Points | Criteria |
|----------|--------|----------|
| **Implementation** | 1.5 | Dropdown (0.6) + Upload page with preview/rename (0.9) |
| **Backend/Database** | 1.0 | Schema (0.3) + CRUD operations (0.4) + Seed script (0.3) |
| **Testing** | 0.5 | 90%+ C1 coverage on new features |
| **Git Workflow** | 0.5 | ≥2 branches, clear commits, implementation plan |
| **Code Review** | 0.5 | PRs with template, peer reviews, CI passes |
| **BONUS: FastAPI** | +1.0 | REST API + proper error handling + separation of concerns |
| **Total (TinyDB)** | **4.0** | Maximum achievable with TinyDB approach |
| **Total (FastAPI)** | **5.0** | Capped at 5.0 (bonus allows error margin up to 6.0) |

### Automated Checks

GitHub Actions will automatically verify:

- ✅ **Code Quality**: Ruff linting, Pyright type checking
- ✅ **Test Coverage**: pytest-cov with 90% threshold on new code
- ✅ **Git Workflow**: ≥2 feature branches, multiple authors, commit quality
- ✅ **PR Reviews**: All PRs approved before merge
- ✅ **Structure**: Required files exist (database/, models.py, etc.)

> **⚠️ Important Note on Automated Checks:**
>
> The GitHub Actions workflows are **for orientation only** and provide helpful feedback during development. However:
>
> - **Final grading is done exclusively by the instructor**, not by automated checks
> - The checks are intentionally open-ended and may not cover all valid solution approaches
> - **Don't get stuck** if a check fails but you have a valid alternative solution - document your approach in your implementation plan
> - If automated checks don't match your design decisions, that's okay! The instructor will evaluate based on correctness, not check compliance
> - Focus on building a working, well-tested application rather than satisfying every automated rule

### Manual Evaluation

Instructor will:
- Clone your repository
- Run `uv sync` and `uv run python -m road_profile_viewer`
- Test all features (dropdown, upload, preview, persistence)
- Review implementation plan quality
- Check code architecture decisions
- Verify testing strategy

## 📄 Required Files Checklist

**Documentation:**
- [ ] `docs/implementation-plan.md` - Your team's plan
- [ ] `docs/example-road-profile.json` - Provided example (included)
- [ ] `docs/llm-prompts/` - LLM prompts (if used)

**Code (varies by approach):**

**Both approaches:**
- [ ] `src/road_profile_viewer/models.py` - Pydantic validation models
- [ ] Updated `src/road_profile_viewer/visualization.py` - Dropdown + upload page

**FastAPI approach:**
- [ ] `src/road_profile_viewer/api/main.py` - FastAPI app
- [ ] `src/road_profile_viewer/api/routes.py` - API endpoints
- [ ] `src/road_profile_viewer/database/models.py` - SQLModel models
- [ ] `src/road_profile_viewer/database/connection.py` - DB setup

**TinyDB approach:**
- [ ] `src/road_profile_viewer/database/db.py` - TinyDB operations

**Tests:**
- [ ] `tests/test_models.py` - Pydantic validation tests
- [ ] `tests/test_database.py` - Database operation tests
- [ ] `tests/test_upload.py` - Upload functionality tests
- [ ] `tests/test_api.py` - API endpoint tests (FastAPI only)

## 📚 Technical Resources

### FastAPI + SQLModel Approach
- [FastAPI Documentation](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
- [SQLModel Documentation](https://sqlmodel.tiangolo.com/)
- [Pydantic Validation](https://docs.pydantic.dev/latest/)

### TinyDB Approach
- [TinyDB Documentation](https://tinydb.readthedocs.io/)
- [TinyDB Tutorial](https://tinydb.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting-started.html)

### Dash Multi-Page Apps
- [Dash Pages](https://dash.plotly.com/urls)
- [Dash Upload Component](https://dash.plotly.com/dash-core-components/upload)

### Testing
- [pytest Documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/)
- [pytest-cov Coverage](https://pytest-cov.readthedocs.io/)

## 🎉 Success Criteria

Your assignment is complete when:

- ✅ All features work as demonstrated in person
- ✅ All automated CI checks pass
- ✅ Test coverage ≥90% on new code
- ✅ All PRs reviewed and merged
- ✅ Implementation plan documents your decisions
- ✅ Code quality meets standards (Ruff, Pyright)

**Congratulations on building a full-stack database application!**

---

**Assignment Created**: 2025-11-19
**Course**: Software Engineering - HS Aalen
**Instructor**: Dominik Mueller
